1.  Introduction

1.1.  Purpose

   The purpose of this specification is to define a lossless compressed
   data format that:

      *  is independent of CPU type, operating system, file system, and
         character set; hence, it can be used for interchange.

      *  can be produced or consumed, even for an arbitrarily long,
         sequentially presented input data stream, using only an a
         priori bounded amount of intermediate storage; hence, it can be
         used in data communications or similar structures, such as Unix
         filters.

      *  compresses data with a compression ratio comparable to the best
         currently available general-purpose compression methods, in
         particular, considerably better than the gzip program.

      *  decompresses much faster than current LZMA implementations.

   The data format defined by this specification does not attempt to:

      *  allow random access to compressed data.

      *  compress specialized data (e.g., raster graphics) as densely as
         the best currently available specialized algorithms.

   This document is the authoritative specification of the brotli
   compressed data format.  It defines the set of valid brotli
   compressed data streams and a decoder algorithm that produces the
   uncompressed data stream from a valid brotli compressed data stream.

1.2.  Intended Audience

   This specification is intended for use by software implementers to
   compress data into and/or decompress data from the brotli format.

   The text of the specification assumes a basic background in
   programming at the level of bits and other primitive data
   representations.  Familiarity with the technique of Huffman coding is
   helpful but not required.








Alakuijala & Szabadka         Informational                     [Page 3]

RFC 7932                         Brotli                        July 2016


   This specification uses (heavily) the notations and terminology
   introduced in the DEFLATE format specification [RFC1951].  For the
   sake of completeness, we always include the whole text of the
   relevant parts of RFC 1951; therefore, familiarity with the DEFLATE
   format is helpful but not required.

   The compressed data format defined in this specification is an
   integral part of the WOFF File Format 2.0 [WOFF2]; therefore, this
   specification is also intended for implementers of WOFF 2.0
   compressors and decompressors.

1.3.  Scope

   This document specifies a method for representing a sequence of bytes
   as a (usually shorter) sequence of bits and a method for packing the
   latter bit sequence into bytes.

1.4.  Compliance

   Unless otherwise indicated below, a compliant decompressor must be
   able to accept and decompress any data set that conforms to all the
   specifications presented here.  A compliant compressor must produce
   data sets that conform to all the specifications presented here.

1.5.  Definitions of Terms and Conventions Used

   Byte: 8 bits stored or transmitted as a unit (same as an octet).  For
   this specification, a byte is exactly 8 bits, even on machines that
   store a character on a number of bits different from eight.  See
   below for the numbering of bits within a byte.

   String: a sequence of arbitrary bytes.

   Bytes stored within a computer do not have a "bit order", since they
   are always treated as a unit.  However, a byte considered as an
   integer between 0 and 255 does have a most and least significant bit
   (lsb), and since we write numbers with the most significant digit on
   the left, we also write bytes with the most significant bit (msb) on
   the left.  In the diagrams below, we number the bits of a byte so
   that bit 0 is the least significant bit, i.e., the bits are numbered:

      +--------+
      |76543210|
      +--------+







Alakuijala & Szabadka         Informational                     [Page 4]

RFC 7932                         Brotli                        July 2016


   Within a computer, a number may occupy multiple bytes.  All multi-
   byte 